# Signal Handlers

### 1. [Ouch.c](https://github.com/danghai/C-projects-and-Data-Structure/blob/master/linux_programming_interface/signal_handlers/ouch.c)

ouch.c: it is a simple example of a signal handler function and a main
program that establishes it as the handler for the SIGINT signal. (The terminal
driver generates this signal when we type the terminal interrupt character, usually
Control-C). The handler simply prints a message Ouch and returns

```
danghai@ubuntu:~$ ./ouch
0
1
2
^C    Ouch!
3
4
^C    Ouch!
5
```
### 2. [intquit.c](https://github.com/danghai/C-projects-and-Data-Structure/blob/master/linux_programming_interface/signal_handlers/intquit.c)

intquit.c: This program establishes the same handler for SIGINT
and SIGQUIT (SIGQUIT is generated by the terminal driver) when we type the
terminal quit character, usually Control -\.) The code of the handler distinguishes
the two signals by examining the sig argument, and takes different actions for each
signal. In the main() function, we use pause() to block the process until a signal is caught

```
danghai@ubuntu:~$ ./intquit
^C  Caught SIGINT (0) !
^C  Caught SIGINT (1) !
^C  Caught SIGINT (2) !
^C  Caught SIGINT (3) !
^\  Caught SIGQUIT - that's all folks
```

### 3. [sig_sender.c](https://github.com/danghai/C-projects-and-Data-Structure/blob/master/linux_programming_interface/signal_handlers/sig_sender.c) and [sig_receiver.c](https://github.com/danghai/C-projects-and-Data-Structure/blob/master/linux_programming_interface/signal_handlers/sig_receiver.c)

The 2 programs `sig_sender.c` and `sig_receiver.c` show signals are not queued.
We first use these two program to illustrate that a blocked signal is delivered
only once, no matter how many times it is generated.

Note: 2 terminals ( One for sig_receiver and one for sig_sender)

```
danghai@ubuntu:~$ ./sig_receiver: PID is 14204
./sig_receiver: sleeping for 15 seconds
./sig_receiver: pending signals are:
		2 (Interrupt)
		10 (User defined signal 1)
./sig_receiver: signal 10 caught 1 time  
```

```
danghai@ubuntu:~$ ./sig_sender 14204 10000 10 2
./sig_sender: sending signal 10 to process 14204 : 10000 times
```

The command-line arguments to the sending program specified the `SIGUSR1` and `SIGINT`
signals, which are signals 10 and 2, respectively, on Linux/x86. From the output above,
we can see that even thourgh 10000 times signals were sent, only was delivered to the
receiver. Even if a process does not block signals, it may receive fewer signals than are
sent to it. This can happen if the signals are sent so fast that thtey arrive before
the receiving process has a chance to be scheduled for execution by the kernel, with
the result that the multiple signals are recorded just once in the process's pending
signal set. 
